# Dirty Work

Analyze a password list and conduct a brute-force login attempt to learn how such attacks are conducted. Familiarity with SSH, Python, and an understanding of string manipulation  is expected.

**NICE Work Role:** 

- [Software Developer](https://niccs.cisa.gov/workforce-development/nice-framework)

**NICE Tasks:**

- [T0014](https://niccs.cisa.gov/workforce-development/nice-framework) - Apply secure code documentation.

 # IMPORTANT

This challenge requires a hosted environment to fully solve as it was intended.  
The files provided in the [challenge folder](challenge) are provided as part of open sourcing. Use these files as a starting point if you want to build your own version of this challenge.
 
 ## Background

  With the right intel, an SSH brute force attack can provide access to remote computer systems for offensive cyber operators. In this challenge, intelligence analysts have identified the likely values of a specific threat's host, username, and password composition. Your mission is to process the data, conduct a brute-force attack to determine the correct credentials, and then log in and retrieve a submission string.


  The intelligence report indicates that the known target's username is `kowalski` and his system has IP address `192.168.1.100`. His password is a compound string comprised of three words concatenated together, in the form `LoremIpsumDolor`. Each word is taken from a dictionary with a distinct theme, and each theme is represented only once. For example, if the themes were "Trees," "Trucks", and "Furniture," the password might be "SuburbanCouchWalnut".


  The three exact words that make up the password are unknown, but a dictionary was generated with strong candidates. Unfortunately, a junior analyst overwrote the master list while attempting to generate permutations for a brute force attack. At that time, intelligence believed that numbers and special characters may have been included in the password. That is no longer believed to be the case.


  What remains of the dictionary are three files with modified entries. Each line represents one potential password, and each potential password may be unaltered, altered with numbers, or altered with symbols and/or spaces. Most words appear, altered or unaltered, many times. Further, it is known that the junior analyst had identified a handful of words that are highly likely to comprise the final password. These favorite words are known to appear only once in each of the three dictionary files. -->


  The following number/letter substitutions should be corrected:


  |number|letter|
  |------|------|
  |   0  |   O  |
  |   1  |   L  |
  |   2  |   Z  |
  |   3  |   E  |
  |   4  |   A  |
  |   5  |   S  |
  |   7  |   T  |
  |   8  |   B  |
  |   9  |   G  |


  All special characters should be removed from each password candidate, including spaces.


  ## Getting Started

  Log in to your Kali workstation. In the `~/wordlist/` directory, there will be three text files containing the mutated list of words generated by the junior analyst. Clean up the files, identify the words that occur only once in each file, then determine the target's password. Log in to the target machine using the credentials you discover and find the submission token in submission.txt in the user's home directory.


  ## Submission Format

  The submission for this challenge is an 8-byte value represented by 16 hexadecimal digits. All letters will be lower case.
