# Pay For Your SYNs

You are given a Python encryption script along with Java and Bash decryption scripts. You must write the companion code to what has been given to you in order to encrypt or decrypt a set of  corresponding messages.

**NICE Work Role:** 
- [Software Developer](https://niccs.cisa.gov/workforce-development/nice-framework)

**NICE Tasks:**
- [T0046](https://niccs.cisa.gov/workforce-development/nice-framework) - Correct errors by making appropriate changes and rechecking the program to ensure that desired results are produced. 
- [T0077](https://niccs.cisa.gov/workforce-development/nice-framework) - Develop secure code and error handling. 
- [T0176](https://niccs.cisa.gov/workforce-development/nice-framework) - Perform secure programming and identify potential flaws in codes to mitigate vulnerabilities. 
- [T0553](https://niccs.cisa.gov/workforce-development/nice-framework) to reduce exploitation opportunities.

## Getting started
For this challenge, you will be given  **three (3)** different challenge scripts: one encryption script written in [Python](./challenge/python/encrypt1.py) and two decryption scripts (one written in [Java](./challenge/java/decrypt2.java) and the other in [Bash](./challenge/bash/decrypt3.sh)). For each script, you will be given the source code and an output string that was generated by running certain argument(s) through that script.

Your task is to write the *opposite* type of script to what is provided in order to encrypt or decrypt the message. For example, if you are working on the Python encryption challenge, you must write the corresponding decryption script in Python and determine the decrypted string. 

You should generate the resulting encrypted/decrypted string(s) to what was initially provided and run it back through the original script as verification. When the correct string is used, you should get back what you were provided with in the beginning. 

**For example:** For the Python *encryption* script and *encrypted* message string, you should write code to generate the corresponding *decrypted* message string. Running the *decrypted* message back through the original script should result in the *encrypted* string that was provided. The *decrypted* string is the submission for this section.  

## Answer Format

1. Python: Decrypt this string
    - `wwnnaefilwcvybmx`

2. Java: Encrypt this string
    - `th1s1sabsolutelybanana55t0lo0kat`

3. Bash: Encrypt this string
    - `3555810`
