# The Syn Strikes Back
Given output strings from a Python decryption script, along with Java, JavaScript, and Bash encryption scripts, you must write companion code that determines the input string used to generate the provided output string for each script.

**NICE Work Role:** 
- [Software Developer](https://niccs.cisa.gov/workforce-development/nice-framework)

**NICE Tasks:**
  - [T0046](https://niccs.cisa.gov/workforce-development/nice-framework) - Correct errors by making appropriate changes and rechecking the program to ensure that desired results are produced. 
  - [T0077](https://niccs.cisa.gov/workforce-development/nice-framework) - Develop secure code and error handling. 
  - [T0176](https://niccs.cisa.gov/workforce-development/nice-framework) - Perform secure programming and identify potential flaws in codes to mitigate vulnerabilities. 
  - [T0553](https://niccs.cisa.gov/workforce-development/nice-framework) to reduce exploitation opportunities.

## Getting started
For this challenge, you will be given  **four (4)** different challenge scripts; these scripts can be found in their respective folder within the [challenge folder](./challenge/). One decryption script written in [Python](./challenge/python/decrypt1.py), and three encryption scripts: one written in [Java](./challenge/java/encrypt.java), one in [JavaScript](./challenge/js/encrypt.js), and the other in [Bash](./challenge/bash/encrypt.sh). For each script, you will be given the source code and an output string that was generated by running a certain argument or arguments through that script. 

Your task is to write the *opposite* type of script to what is provided in order to encrypt or decrypt the message. For example: if you are working on the Python decryption challenge, you must write the corresponding encryption script and determine the decrypted string.   

To begin the Python part of the challenge, try entering a string into [cipher.txt](./challenge/python/cipher.txt) and running the associated [decrypt1.py](./challenge/python/decrypt1.py).

## Challenge goals

Determine how to encrypt or decrypt each of the following strings given for each of the various scripts. 

Encrypt this string:
- Python decryption - `83234141112333`

Decrypt this string:
- Java encryption - `216q211n221v239q207s214b225s228q202d227w`

Decrypt this string:
- JavaScript encryption - `suegddppoqacffrrceoqgisuffrrttffsuegzzllsueggisu`

Decrypt this string:
- Bash encryption - `tf%t&&!&pw`

## HINTS
- There are no uppercase letters being used to encrypt/decrypt any of the strings present.
- When running strings that include special characters through the scripts, you may need to use the escape character "\\" to get the desired outcome.
